Client Server Architecture

it basically a technique where workload is divided between client and server. Clients refer to devices or programs which request resources from the server and server refers to a remote device that provides data, resources and services to the clients.

generally, client request data or service from the server and server delivers as long as it has data or service available in its system

How browser interacts with the server
user enters the url
browser do for DNS lookup
the browser get IP address from DNS resolver
the browser then sends http/https request to the server and fetch the data Http is the protocol used for communication between client and server
then server sends website files required to render webpage to the user
browser renders the webpage to the user

Static sites vs Dynamic Sites
in static sites the webpages returned by server are prebuilt using html css and javascript. Static does not mean that it will not respond to user actions, These Websites are called static because these cannot be manipulated on the server or interact with databases

in dynamic sites the webpages are processed during runtime they are not prebuilt webpages but they are built during runtime according to the request made by user.

RestAPI
RestAPI stands for Representational State Transfer. REST is an architectural style that define set of rules to follow when creating web services. Webservices that follow REST architecture are known as RESTful webservices. RESTAPI is nothing but a set of rules that follow to communicate between two programs or software over a network. 
RESTAPI uses HTTP methods for communication like GET POST PUT DELETE
client generally send a request using url with http methods and server responds with a response generally in JSON format
It is stateless means the server not store any information regrading session state of client(the server will not store any previous sessions of the client if any previous session information is required the client should send all the data in current request to the server) the request made by client is new and independent and includes all the information to fulfill the request.


JAVASCRIPT - a scripting language
javascript is a synchronous single threaded language.
we can access html element in javascript by using their ids (document.getElementById())
JavaScript Hoisting - refers to a mechanism where functions and variables declarations are moved to the top of the current scope.
JavaScript strict mode - Strict mode is a way to make JavaScript run in a safer and more controlled way by catching common coding mistakes and preventing unsafe actions.
JavaScript Callbacks - A callback is a function passing as an argument to another function.
Callbacks allow one function to call another at a later time.
A callback function can execute after another function has finished.
Asynchronous functions - 
JavaScript promises - are the objects representing eventual completion or failure of an asynchronous operation and its resulting value.
A promise has 3 states - pending, resolved and reject
It uses then, catch, finally methods to handle outcomes of the asynchronous function
Async and await in javaScript - handels asynchronous functions different from promises. 
are used to simplify handling asynchronous operations using promises. These enables that asynchronous code looks like synchronous
Async keyword before a function makes us to write a promise based code as if it was synchronous. Async always returns a promise. If a value is returned that is not a promise, JavaScript automatically wraps it in a resolved promise.
Await is used to wait for a promise to resolve. it can only be used inside an async function.
JavaScript HTML DOM - Document Object Model
When a webpage is loaded the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page. HTML DOM is represented as a tree of objects.

